Add teaching cookbooks and materials (#3768)
geodynamics/aspect: cookbooks/onset_of_convection/doc/onset_of_convection.tex

\subsubsection{Onset of convection}
\label{sec:cookbooks-onset-of-convection}
\textit{This section was contributed by Juliane Dannberg.}

The input file for this model can be found at \url{cookbooks/onset_of_convection/onset_of_convection.prm}.

> This model is a  copy of the onset of convection benchmark described in Section~\ref{sec:benchmark-onset-of-convection}, 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This model is a copy of the onset of convection benchmark described in Section~\ref{sec:benchmark-onset-of-convection}, 
```

You will notice that close to the top of the file, there is a line that specifies the thickness of the mantle in the model. 
This value is used in more than one place in the input file, so it is easier to let the script replace all occurrences than to do this by hand. To use your mantle thickness, replace the value in the line 

\begin{verbatim}
mantle_thickness=3000000
\end{verbatim}

The other lines you will have to modify are the following:

\begin{verbatim}
for viscosity in "1e24" "3.3e24" "1e25" "3.3e25" "1e26" "3.3e26" "1e27"
do
  for DeltaT in "10" "30" "100" "300" "1000" "3000" "10000"
  do   
\end{verbatim}

What happens here is that the script performs a loop (a so-called for-loop):
It executes all the commands within the loop for each of the values listed here in quotes. 
In other words, this loop would run the model for all combinations of the viscosities $10^{24}$, $3.3 \cdot 10^{24}$, $10^{25}$, $3.3 \cdot 10^{25}$, $10^{26}$, $3.3 \cdot 10^{26}$, $10^{27}$ Pa s, and the temperature differences of 10, 30, 100, 300, 1000, 3000 and 10000 K between top and bottom of the model (which is what the DeltaT parameter stands for). 

> These are a lot of models, so these models are only run for 2 time steps each. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Given the number of models, they are only run for 2 time steps each. 
```

In an unstable model, the velocity should grow after the first time step, in a stable model, the velocity should decrease. 

\subparagraph{Postprocess the output.}
You can plot the \texttt{onset-convection-data.csv} file using gnuplot (or a different plotting program, if there's one you like better). The \url{cookbooks/onset_of_convection/} folder should also contain a file \texttt{plot.plt}. This is a small script for gnuplot that will generate a plot from your data and write it into an output file called \texttt{convection.png}, using logarithmic scales for the x and y axes. The script is already set up in a way that it plots the ratio of the last two columns in the data file (which are the average velocities in the model in the last two times steps), so it will plot values larger than 1 (shown in yellow colors) for unstable model configurations, and values smaller than one (shown in black colors) for stable model configurations without convection. 
Note that the gnuplot algorithm draws quadrangles filled with colors calculated from the average color-value of the surrounding 4 corners.

You can run the script by typing 
\begin{verbatim}
gnuplot plot.plt
\end{verbatim}

> You can open \url{cookbooks/onset_of_convection/plot.plt} with leafpad to see what's in there, and you can also run each of these lines as a separate command interactively in in gnuplot. In order to do that, type \texttt{gnuplot} in the terminal, and then just copy or type any of the commands in the terminal window (but that's optional; hint: to close gnuplot, type \texttt{quit}). 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can open \url{cookbooks/onset_of_convection/plot.plt} with leafpad to see what's in there, and you can also run each of these lines as a separate command interactively in gnuplot. In order to do that, type \texttt{gnuplot} in the terminal, and then just copy or type any of the commands in the terminal window (but that's optional; hint: to close gnuplot, type \texttt{quit}). 
```

\subparagraph{What should be in your report?}

\subparagraph{Start with an introduction.}
Start with an introductory paragraph that states what you want to do and gives an outlook on the rest of the report.

\subparagraph{Describe your model setup.}
In your report, start by describing the setup of the model and what can be learned from running such a model. 
Specifically, describe what the important forces are that drive and resist convection including the corresponding equations. 
Also discuss the material properties that affect these forces, and why the temperature is important even though it does not show up in the force balance. 

State what celestial body you investigate, the vertical extension and the gravity you use in your model. 

\subparagraph{Describe your model results.}
Then describe your model results. Include your plot of models with and without convection for different values of the viscosity and temperature difference and discuss it:
What parameter range did you test?
How do variations in each of the two parameters influence the occurrence of convection? 

> Describe how the line of the onset of convection (the interface between the part of your plot with and the one without convection)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Describe how the line of the onset of convection (i.e., the interface between the part of your plot with and the one without convection)
```
